=<font color="#003366">History of the Project</font>=
I would like to say a few words about the history of the project and why is it the 2^nd^ version of RAICK.
==<font color="#006666">H.A.I.C.K.</font>==
It all began with HAICK: _Homunculus Artificial Intelligence Creation Kit_. At first it was just an experiment- I was trying to make something that would present the AI data in a more convenient and easy-to-use way. For quite a long time I was the only user, and then, at some point, the framework got mature enough to be shown to the public, so I began writing the manual. After posting it on the forum of a Russian private server [http://www.asgardro.com AsgardRO](on which a had been playing at that time) the framework started slowly, but steadily gaining popularity in the Russian RO community.<br><br>
----
==<font color="#006666">R.A.I.C.K. v1</font>==
With the release of mercenaries i've thought that it would be a good idea to make something similar for them and since anyway most of the code would have been the same i've decided to merge this new functionality with HAICK. However, adding something that would only mirror HAICK would have been too boring, so I developed a feature that allowed homunculus to communicate with mercenary and vice-versa. And thus the successor of HAICK was born.<br><br>
----
==<font color="#006666">Going International with R.A.I.C.K. v2</font>==
After some time I've decided to introduce my creation to a larger public. With this intention in mind I've set 2 ambitious goals for myself:
  * To rewrite RAICK, simplifying everything that can still be simplified
  * To write a new simple guide in English not only for the RAICK itself, but for the Lua language, AI scripting and programming as a whole
This way RAICK project becomes not only a framework, but also something like an online tutorial for learning AI scripting.<br>
So, if you are one of those, who want to learn how to make your own AI's with less effort, then this is certainly the place for you!